Now, let's talk about VPC flow logs.
VPC flow logs are a log of all the IP traffic
going through your interfaces.
So you can get a VPC flow log, a subnet flow log
or even an Elastic Network Interface flow log
to see the traffic going in and out
of your EC2 instances for example.
By enabling the flow log, we can monitor and troubleshoot
for connectivity issues,
for example, if a subnet can not connect to the internet
or a subnet cannot connect to another subnet
or the internet cannot access a subnet,
this would be captured by the VPC flow log
and we can look at it to get to the root cause of it.
So this is super important,
because on top of getting information
out of our EC2 instances,
we also get information for Elastic Load Balancers,
ElastiCache, RDS, Aurora, et cetera, et cetera.
And VPC flow logs can go to Amazon S3,
CloudWatch Logs and Amazon Data Firehose.
Next we have VPC peering,
and VPC peering is to connect two VPC privately
using the network from AWS,
and to make them behave as if they were part
from the same network.
So this is an example.
We have VPC A and VPC B and we can peer them together
and as soon as it's done,
then they will have the same network
or behave as if they were in the same network.
So for this, you need to make sure
that the IP addresses range do not overlap.
If they do overlap, then you cannot establish
a VPC peering connection.
The other thing is that a VPC peering connection
is not transitive.
That means that if you add a new VPC, for example VPC C,
and you create a peering connection between VPC A and VPC C,
then that means that VPC B and C
cannot talk to each other yet.
If you want to have VPC B and C talk to one another,
then you will need to create another peering connection
between your VPC B and C.
So let's go in the console to see how this works.
So let's explore VPC flow logs.
For this, you click on your VPC
and then click on flow logs
and here you can create a flow log.
So we'll just have a look at the options for flow logs.
So you can name it,
you can say filters, you want all traffic,
just accepted traffic or rejected traffic.
What is the maximum aggregation interval?
Do you want it to be in 10 minutes interval
or one minute interval?
And then, what is the destination?
For example, you can send to CloudWatch Logs,
you can send to an Amazon S3 bucket
or you can send to Kinesis Firehose
in the same or different accounts.
And based on the option you choose,
you have to specify different parameters,
for example, for CloudWatch Logs,
the log group, as well as an IAM role.
And finally, here's the log record format,
which is going to create some information
on the VPC flow logs, such as version,
account ID, interface ID,
source address, destination address,
source port, destination port,
protocol, packets, bytes, start, end, action, log status.
So that's it for VPC flow logs
and regarding the VPC peering connection,
you will go on the left-hand side
and you find peering connections.
So here we can create a peering connection.
So we can name it.
We have to select a local VPC to peer with,
so let's call the requester VPC.
And then you have to select another VPC to peer with.
It could be in my account
or it could be in another account
and then it could be in this region
or it could be in another region,
for example, let's choose Cape Town, Africa
and then you will need to enter the VPC ID.
Once you've done that,
you can just create a peering connection
and then if accepted,
then the two networks will behave as one,
which is the whole point of using VPC peering connections.
So I don't have an extra VPC to show you right now,
but you get the idea.
So that's it, in this lecture we've seen VPC flow logs
to capture traffic information or VPC,
as well as VPC peering connections.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.